We would like to understand more about you and your reasons for applying to AmeriCorps. Please share with us why you would like to serve with the AmeriCorps program.

	I am presently a member of the Texas Episcopal Service Corps (TX-ESC) in Houston. I serve as a clerk in medical case management at the YMCA International Services, a refugee resettlement agency. 

	Together with a team of 8, I support refugees with complex medical conditions. I arrange medical appointments, transportation and interpretation. I am also responsible for for low-income healthcare applications. In emergency situations, I accompany clients to safety net services. As a clerk, I maintain 240 client case files, including their medical records, financial eligibility information, and immigration documents.

	I would like to apply what I've learned working at the YMCA to a second year of impactful service. 

	Taking a second year comes highly recommended: both my supervisor at the YMCA and my TX-ESC director served two years in AmeriCorps. The YMCA's citizenship instructor took two years in the Peace Corps. My peer in Austin served in a Luther Volunteer Corps and TX-ESC. My supervisor described that she was "learning for the first year and making a difference in the second."

	I plan to complete a second year in a service corps as "Practicum", that is, lived experience to move me closer to my vocational calling.

Skills:

	Fine Arts/Crafts:  

	I am tenor in a parish choir. I have experience hemming clothing. High mechanical intelligence.

	Medicine:  

	Provided administrative support for refugee health working groups. Attended colloquia: Nutrition for Chronic Diseases, HIV outreach in Trans/Gender Non-Conforming Communities & Men's Mental Health

	Writing/Editing:  

	Minor in English Literature. Able to draft, revise, and copy-edit documents. Strong experience typesetting letters, manuscripts and memos. I host a website: coltongrainger.github.io/projects.html


	Architectural Planning: 

	Designed electric fence enclosures as a WWOOF Ranch-Hand. Pastured two herds of sheep and planned a sustainable garden. I understand the necessary components for the layout of a commerical kitchen.

	First Aid:  

	I will be CPR certified by the end of June 2017. Strong swimmer. Excellent health.

	Public Health:  

	Participated in the refugee health needs assessment. Attended trainings on the affordable care act. Designed a resource for medical case management: github.com/ColtonGrainger/ymca-resources/

	Community Organization:  

	At the YMCA, I trained volunteers to provide cultural orientation. From 2012-2015, I helped host Gem Boys State (a summer camp on state government) with the American Legion & was Dean for two years.

	Environment:  

	Strong academic curiousity in contaminant diffusion in ground water. I imagine a future career in mathematical ecology. Also, I am a cyclist and a user of public transit: I do not drive. 

	Team Work:  

	I work now on two teams to support refugees: team of 3 in medical care and team of 5 in case management. Also, I have collaborative experience in proofs and demonstrations as student of mathematics. 

	Computers/Technology:  

	Know HTML5, CSS, LaTeX. Also Python and C++. Have experience with version control. Fluent in Linux, macOS, PC. Able to write macros to manage data. Strong desire to encourage technological literacy.

	Education:  

	As a grading assistant, I corrected weekly assignments for 25 general physics students and corresponded with faculty to ensure objective and accurate grading.

	Teaching/Tutoring:  

	Tutored calculus students. Graded physics coursework. Guided small groups through problems in elementary electromagnetism. Experienced leading dicussions in colloquium. Able to pose leading questions.

	Mathematics:  

	I have a B.S. in Mathematics-Physics. Senior Study in Galois Theory for Differential Equations under Dr. Jonny Comes: https://coltongrainger.github.io/documents/cgrainger_coursework_galois.pdf

	Fund raising/Grant Writing:  

	I am the author of more than 30 low income healthcare applications, and 6 rental asistance applications. Currently working on a housing grant for a client who is low-income cancer patient. 

Description of Involvement 

	I have committed a year to the Texas Episcopal Service Corps (TX-ESC). During August 2016--July 2017 I will contribute approximately 1800 hours to my service site, which is the YMCA International Services. 

	I count TX-ESC a unique community involvement outside of my professional work at the YMCA because: I lived in an intentional community with other two service corps fellows. I cultivated spirituality by singing in a choir (15 hours/month) and by practicing yoga (20 hours/month). I participated in professional development including non-violent communication (15 hours net), life design classes (6 hours/month), HIV outreach (10 hours net), and men's mental health workshops (15 hours net). I also recruited for next year's corps (12 hours net). 

	In TX-ESC, I am engaged with an ecological present: our community house is nestled on the Near Northside of Houston. Our streets are low, swampy, and abundant with stray cats. I commute, jostling over potholes and rail tracks, on my bicycle to the METRO hub. My consumption is limited to nutritious foods within my budget. I boil legumes and grains for the week, jar them, and carry clinking jars in my backpack to work. I swim in Houston's fluid, phenomenal moment. 

	I am grateful!

Description of Involvement 

	I was a WWOOF Ranch-Hand on Sonnwendhof Biofarm in South Germany. I worked cooperatively with American, German and Italian WWOOFers. I pastured two herds of sheep and maintained a sustainable garden. 

	Over 6 weeks I set up 2 kilometers of electric fence. I cleared foliage with a petroleum weed-wacker (some call it a whipper-snipper). I later learned to mow with a traditional scythe. I fed and watered the sheep and donkeys daily. I also worked with three Albanian boys on their German (and football).

	(As a side note: On break days, I frequented Heidelberg by S-Bahn---heavy, intercity trains. I was fortunate to be able to conduct two brief interviews with faculty in the graduate school of fundamental physics. I also attended two colloquia on star formation.)

Description of Involvement

	For a week in June 2012, 13, 14 and 15, I helped host a summer camp on state government with the American Legion. I taught 150 students judicial and legislative procedures. I facilitated 4 day mock trial tournaments and 2 day congressional debates. For two years I was a Dean at the camp: 2014 as the legislative Dean, 2015 as the judicial Dean.

	We coordinated mock political procedures to mirror the functioning of government in Idaho. We also arranged guest speakers to lecture, then take questions from the campers.

Reflection

	I prototype by volunteering. When I offer my time and labor to another's project, I invite co-creation. I am especially blessed to have experience with animals, students and migrants. I have learned how to co-create ecological, academic and culturally appropriate spaces with each population.

	By writing and reflecting on volunteerism, I have cultivated a deep knowledge of myself. That is, by examining myself in the light of each role I've taken on, I see a different facet of a wholistic person. Or, said differently, by adopting roles in my community---as a ranch hand, a service corps fellow, a camp leader---I "branch out" and "root down". 

	For self-knowledge I am grateful! It's why I volunteer.


