Dr. Rosoff,

You have instructed me in multivariable calculus, differential equations, the COMAP seminar, history of mathematics, and topology. 

In your courses I learned
	-to write up my proofs in LaTeX,
	-to deliver oral argument, and
	-to offer constructive criticism.

%I will ask Dr. Rosoff to highlight my potential. He complemented me ``you have good geometric intuition.'' Dr. Rosoff can explain his experience having me as a student. 

He may qualify how I contribute to classes, small groups, and staff. 

He really ought to emphasize my writing skills and tact in presentation. In fact, I pride myself most on the last proof I delivered to the class with Prof. Maughan auditing. 

May he characterize my life and seriousness of intent. I have mulled over alternative ways of living, yet want strongly to continue in school. (I am not likely to have a change of heart.)

%Train me utilize upper level mathematics and I will contribute to your program.

%I am a reasonably balanced person, (?) I am deeply empathetic and I am a fast learner. I'm also rather creative.

I will rely more on Dull, Comes and Maughan to describe the tenor and quality of my research. Although I did present three of four ``projects'' in front of Dr. Rosoff, each time I was very nervous (I was ill) and poorly prepared. I would rather not talk about the COMAP, DifEQ, or History of Maths.

Dr. Rosoff should also mention my ambition. I am ambitious to be with peers. I want to connect with my peers in a mathematically significant manner. I am ambitious because I want to be an initiated member of the graduate student community. 

%I blah blah do not want to identify, but rather be in the body of believers. This is why I am a good fit for CU Boulder. I want to ramp up my skills to participate and collaborate.

to describe the quality of my character and my potential for growth. I would like to have a ``formative graduate experience.’’

%Applied Mathematics = a more consistent life. It brings together life enriching time in wilderness, time communicating with my peers, and time in my vocation. To start local and dig in deep. What do I intend to do with a Ph. D.? Solve problems. Its my responsibility as a member of the species. Let’s have a smaller human footprint.

I begin an independent study of linear algebra. and  independent study of Bruce Shapiro’s scientific computing: python for math junkies

%This year I am doing ``clerical’’ work and assisting with refugee case management in Houston.